Java Runtime Views (#541)
cap-js/docs: java/advanced.md

List<Books> books = dataStore.execute(query).listOf(Books.class);	// After executing the query the result can be converted to a typed representation List of Books.
```

## Runtime Views { #runtimeviews}

> The CDS compiler generates [SQL DDL](../guides/databases?impl-variant=java#generating-sql-ddl) statements based on your CDS model. These include SQL views for CDS [views and projections](../cds/cdl#views-and-projections), which means adding or changing CDS views requires a deployment of the database schema changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CDS compiler generates [SQL DDL](../guides/databases?impl-variant=java#generating-sql-ddl) statements based on your CDS model, whicj include SQL views for all CDS [views and projections](../cds/cdl#views-and-projections). This means adding or changing CDS views requires a deployment of the database schema changes.
```

> To avoid schema updates due to adding or updating CDS views, annotate them with [@cds.persistence.skip](../guides/databases#cds-persistence-skip). In this case the CDS compiler doesn't generate corresponding SQL views and the CDS views are resolved by the CAP Java runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid schema updates due to adding or updating CDS views, annotate them with [@cds.persistence.skip](../guides/databases#cds-persistence-skip). In this case the CDS compiler won't generate corresponding static database views. Instead, the CDS views are dynamically resolved by the CAP Java runtime.
```

```cds
entity Books {
  key id     : UUID;
      title  : String;
      stock  : Integer;
      author : Association to one Authors;
}

@cds.persistence.skip // [!code focus]
entity BooksWithLowStock as projection on Books { // [!code focus]
    id, title, author.name as author // [!code focus]
} where stock < 10; // [!code focus]
```

At runtime, CAP Java resolves queries against runtime views until an entity is reached that isn't annotated with *@cds.persistence.skip*. For example, the CQL query

```sql
Select BooksWithLowStock where author = 'Kafka'
```

is executed against SQL databases as

```SQL
SELECT B.ID, B.TITLE, A.NAME as "author" FROM BOOKS B
  LEFT OUTER JOIN AUTHORS A ON B.AUTHOR_ID = A.ID
WHERE B.STOCK < 10 AND A.NAME = ?
```

::: tip

> Runtime views are supported for [CDS projections](../cds/cdl#as-projection-on), constant values and expressions such as *case when* are currently ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime views are supported for [CDS projections](../cds/cdl#as-projection-on). Constant values and expressions such as *case when* are currently ignored.
```
